Solid start Reference section (#604)
solidjs/solid-docs-next: src/routes/reference/server-utilities/get-request-event.mdx

---
title: getRequestEvent
---

Solid uses Async Local Storage as a way of injecting the request context anywhere on the server. 
This is also the event that shows up in middleware.

It can be retrieved by  `getRequestEvent` from `"solid-js/web"`.

```js
import { getRequestEvent } from "solid-js/web";

const event = getRequestEvent();
```

## Request

> The most important property of the `RequestEvent` is `.request`. This is a Web [Request](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) object that represents the current request to the server. You can access all the properties off of it like `url` and `headers`. The `body` usually does not need to be handled directly for things like server functions or rendering which already handle mapping it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`.request` is the he most important property of the `RequestEvent`. 
This is a Web [Request object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) that represents the current request to the server. 
You can access properties off of it such as `url` and `headers`. 
 `body`, however, does not typically need to be handled directly for things such as server functions or rendering, which already handle mapping.
```

```js
import { getRequestEvent } from "solid-js/web";

const event = getRequestEvent();
if (event) {
	const auth = event.request.headers.get("Authorization");
}
```

## Response

> The `getRequestEvent` also can be used to stub out the Response. We extend the options that one would pass to the [`Response`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response/Response#options) constructor.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what "stub" means"?

```suggestion
The `getRequestEvent` can also be used to stub out the Response - this extends the [options that can pass to the `Response constructor`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response/Response#options).
```

}
```

> ### Returning a Response vs Updating the Response on the event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Returning vs updating the response on an event
```

The event is considered global and lasts the life of the request. Therefore whether you are calling a server function on the server during SSR or via an RPC call setting values on `event.response` will reflect on that request.

Whereas the returned response will only impact the response when it is an RPC call. This is important because some headers you might want to set you may not want to set for the whole page and only for the specific request.

Keep this in mind when choosing where to set headers and responses.

<Callout title="Usage with SolidStart">
See this guide on [Request Events](http://localhost:3000/solid-start/advanced/request-events)
</Callout>

> ## Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### `getRequestEvent()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This function takes no arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
